======
HOW TO
======

How to use this library

.. contents::

***************
Getting started
***************

See the `getting started guide <about-get-started.rst>`_.

***************************************************************
Switching between stateful & stateless messages (Soap Header 4)
***************************************************************

If you do not require an active context in your session, you're better off using stateless messages.

However, for many operations, you'll need an active context (a PNR context, a pricing context, ...).

You can easily switch from stateful to stateless messages at runtime with:

.. code-block:: php

    $client->setStateful(false); //Enable stateless messages

    $client->setStateful(true); //Enable stateful messages


It's also possible to specify the default stateful setting at construction time of the client **(stateful is enabled by default)**:

.. code-block:: php

    use Amadeus\Client;
    use Amadeus\Client\Params;

    $params = new Params([
        'sessionHandlerParams' => [
            //... other parameters omitted for clarity ...
            'stateful' => false,
        ]
    ]);

    $client = new Client($params);


*****************************************
Ending a stateful session (Soap Header 4)
*****************************************

After doing multiple calls with a stateful session, there are two ways to end the session:

- do a Security_SignOut call:

.. code-block:: php

    $client->securitySignOut(); //Terminates an active stateful session. There is no active session with stateless messages.

- set an 'endSession' message option on the last call you want to make:

.. code-block:: php

    $client->pnrRetrieve(
        new PnrRetrieveOptions(['recordLocator' => 'ABC123']),
        ['endSession' => true]
    );

***************************
WSAP's with multiple WSDL's
***************************

Amadeus sometimes provides you with multiple WSDL files in a single WSAP. New features in the Amadeus Web Services are sometimes implemented as "interfaces". This library supports those interfaces *(although at the time of writing, it does not yet support any message that can be found in an interface WSDL)*.

You can provide all the WSDL's in your WSAP by passing an array of wsdl's in the Client Params:

.. code-block:: php

    use Amadeus\Client;
    use Amadeus\Client\Params;

    //Set up the client with necessary parameters:

    $params = new Params([
        'authParams' => [
            'officeId' => 'BRUXX1111',
            'userId' => 'WSBENXXX',
            'passwordData' => 'dGhlIHBhc3N3b3Jk'
        ],
        'sessionHandlerParams' => [
            'soapHeaderVersion' => Client::HEADER_V4,
            'wsdl' => [
                '/home/user/mytestproject/data/amadeuswsdl/1ASIWXXXXXX_PDT_20160101_080000.wsdl',
                '/home/user/mytestproject/data/amadeuswsdl/1ASIWXXXXXX_PDT_MediaServer_1.0_4.0.wsdl'
            ],
            'logger' => new Psr\Log\NullLogger()
        ]
    ]);

    $client = new Client($params);


You can now call messages from any of the loaded WSDL while staying in the same session & context.

************************************
Handling sessions with Soap Header 2
************************************

Soap Header 2 based applications are a bit more cumbersome to handle in order to get a successful certification:

- you need to implement session pooling in order to limit the number of session creation/destruction events
- you need to enforce your maximum number of concurrent sessions
- you need to send a separate authentication message before you can do anything

This library does not provide any session pooling mechanism, you'll have to implement this yourself.

You can get a current session's info (for later re-use) by calling

.. code-block:: php

    $client->getSessionData();

You can restore a previous current session after you retrieved it from your session pool for later re-use:

.. code-block:: php

    $previousSessionData = [
        'sessionId' => 'XFHZEKLRZHREJ',
        'sequenceNumber' => 5,
        'securityToken' => 'RKLERJEZLKRHZEJKLRHEZJKLREZRHEZK'
    ];

    $client->setSessionData($previousSessionData);

*********************
Handling the response
*********************

The response from a Web Service call made through this library will be an instance of the ``Amadeus\Client\Result`` class:
this object contains:

* A status to indicate if the message was successful (FATAL, ERROR, WARN, INFO, OK) (property ``status``)
* Any error or other messages that provide more information about the status (property ``messages``)
* The response object as generated by the ``\SoapClient`` (property ``response``)
* The message XML string (property ``responseXml``) *(can be disabled)*

When processing a response from the Amadeus Web Services, the library will check for any error or other status messages in the response and set the status accordingly.

Sometimes it's useful if the result from the SOAP call gets returned as a PHP object,
sometimes a string containing the XML document of the SOAP-BODY is more useful.

For example, when trying to extract specific information from a PNR, it can be useful to load the
PNR_Reply as a ``\DOMDocument`` and query it using a ``\DOMXPath`` object: for this, you can use the ``Amadeus\Client\Result::responseXml`` from the result object.

Disabling XML as string in Result
=================================

When working with large messages, it may be preferred to not return the XML as string in the ``responseXml`` property of the Result: This behaviour can be disabled or enabled with a parameter in the Client's parameterset (``Amadeus\Client\Params``):

.. code-block:: php

    use Amadeus\Client;
    use Amadeus\Client\Params;

    $params = new Params([
        'returnXml' => false,
        // Other parameters omitted for this example
    ]);

    $client = new Client($params);

When configured as in the above example, the responseXml property will not be populated with the XML string.

You can override the default behaviour for a message by passing an array with a ``'resultXml'`` key in the second parameter of a message call:

.. code-block:: php

    use Amadeus\Client;
    use Amadeus\Client\Result;
    use Amadeus\Client\RequestOptions\FareInformativePricingWithoutPnrOptions;

    $options = new FareInformativePricingWithoutPnrOptions([
        //message options omitted for this example
    ]);

    $result = $client->fareInformativePricingWithoutPnr(
        $options,
        ['returnXml' => true]
    );

In the above example, the XML string will be populated in ``$result->responseXml``, overriding the default behaviour.

The opposite is also possible: enable by default but disable when calling specific messages:

.. code-block:: php

    use Amadeus\Client;
    use Amadeus\Client\Result;
    use Amadeus\Client\Params;
    use Amadeus\Client\RequestOptions\FareInformativePricingWithoutPnrOptions;

    $params = new Params([
        'returnXml' => true, //'true' is the default value and can be omitted.
        // Other parameters omitted for this example
    ]);

    $options = new FareInformativePricingWithoutPnrOptions([
        //message options omitted for this example
    ]);

    $result = $client->fareInformativePricingWithoutPnr(
        $options,
        ['returnXml' => false]
    );

******
Errors
******

The Amadeus web services can be tricky with regards to error detection. In most verbs, you have to look for the presence of error nodes in the response to see if everything went allright.

We try to ease your pain a little by analyzing the messages we support and look for error nodes. If any are found, we will put any error messages in the ``Amadeus\Client\Result::messages`` property of the result and set the result status accordingly.

If the Amadeus server responds with a ``\SoapFault``, the library will convert this to a ``Result`` object with status 'FATAL'.

To override this behaviour, look at the ``Amadeus\Client\ResponseHandler\ResponseHandlerInterface``. You can inject your custom implementation of the ``ResponseHandlerInterface`` on Client instantiation in the ``Amadeus\Client\Params::$responseHandler`` property.

**************************
Custom \SoapClient options
**************************

You can override the default ``\SoapClient`` options by passing them in the Session Handler Params:

.. code-block:: php

    $params = new Params([
        'sessionHandlerParams' => [
            // ...
            // other parameters omitted for clarity
            // ...
            'soapClientOptions' => [
                'compression' => SOAP_COMPRESSION_ACCEPT | SOAP_COMPRESSION_GZIP
            ]
        ],
        'requestCreatorParams' => [
            'receivedFrom' => 'my test project'
        ]
    ]);

\SoapClient options provided as such will override the default settings defined in
``Amadeus\Client\Session\Handler\Base::$soapClientOptions`` and must be provided in the correct
format as specified in the PHP manual: http://php.net/manual/en/soapclient.soapclient.php

****************************
Logging request and response
****************************

As you can see in the example above, you can provide a PSR-3 compatible Logging object on client instantiation. When you do this, all requests and responses in XML format will be logged to it.

This can be useful for debugging purposes, or when working with Amadeus Support.

Here's an example of how to use a `Monolog <https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog>`_ logging object, which logs to a simple ascii file:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    use Monolog\Logger;
    use Monolog\Handler\StreamHandler;
    use Amadeus\Client;
    use Amadeus\Client\Params;
    use Amadeus\Client\RequestOptions\PnrRetrieveOptions;

    $msgLog = new Logger('RequestResponseLogs');
    $msgLog->pushHandler(new StreamHandler('/var/www/myapp/logs/requestresponse.log', Logger::INFO));


    //Set up the client with logger:

    $params = new Params([
        'sessionHandlerParams' => [
            'logger' => $msgLog
            // Other parameters omitted in this example
        ]
    ]);

    $client = new Client($params);

    $pnrResult = $client->pnrRetrieve(
        new PnrRetrieveOptions(['recordLocator' => 'ABC123'])
    );

If you now check the logfile's contents, it will contain the request and response for the PNR_Retrieve call you just made.

*****************************************
Getting individual requests and responses
*****************************************

If you don't want to log all requests and responses to a logfile, but you need to inspect a single request or response for debugging or other purposes, you can use:

.. code-block:: php

    $lastMessageSent = $client->getLastRequest();

    $lastResponseReceived = $client->getLastResponse();


If you also need the HTTP headers, that's possible too (exposes PHP's ``\SoapClient::__getLastRequestHeaders()`` and ``\SoapClient::__getLastResponseHeaders()``):

.. code-block:: php

    $lastRequestHeaders = $client->getLastRequestHeaders();

    $lastResponseHeaders = $client->getLastResponseHeaders();

********************************************************
Dealing with multiple versions of a message in your WSDL
********************************************************

Often, when your WSDL gets upgraded to new message versions by Amadeus, they will leave the older versions of the message in the WSDL. When using such a WSDL, the library will use the message in the WSDL it finds first (=the oldest version).

If you want the library to use the newest version of a message, you have to **manually remove the old versions from the WSDL file**.


================
EXAMPLE MESSAGES
================

See `examples <samples.rst>`_.
